README.md, before:

# stlite: Serverless Streamlit

[![Test, Build, and Publish](https://github.com/whitphx/stlite/actions/workflows/main.yml/badge.svg?branch=main)](https://github.com/whitphx/stlite/actions/workflows/main.yml)
[![Build and Deploy GitHub Pages](https://github.com/whitphx/stlite/actions/workflows/gh-pages.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/whitphx/stlite/actions/workflows/gh-pages.yml)
[![npm (@stlite/mountable)](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@stlite/mountable?label=npm%20%28%40stlite%2Fmountable%29)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@stlite/mountable)

<img src="./docs/images/logo.svg" style="background: white;" >

A port of [Streamlit](https://streamlit.io/) to WebAssembly, powered by [Pyodide](https://pyodide.org/).

Streamlit is a Python web app framework for the fast development of data apps. This project is to make it run completely on web browsers.

## Try it out

Visit [stlite sharing](https://edit.share.stlite.net/).

[<img src="https://edit.share.stlite.net/ogp.png" height="180" >](https://edit.share.stlite.net/)

## Samples

### ⚡️Serverless Image Processing App

Image processing with OpenCV works on the client-side.

- Repository📌: https://github.com/whitphx/stlite-image-processing-app
- Online demo🎈: https://whitphx.github.io/stlite-image-processing-app/

<details>
  <summary>See the tutorial video</summary>

[Serverless Streamlit + OpenCV Python Web App Tutorial](https://youtu.be/7Qja9ZAWcfw), crafted by [1littlecoder](https://www.youtube.com/c/1littlecoder).

[![Serverless Streamlit + OpenCV Python Web App Tutorial](https://img.youtube.com/vi/7Qja9ZAWcfw/0.jpg)](https://youtu.be/7Qja9ZAWcfw)

</details>

## Create a desktop app

See [`@stlite/desktop-cli`](./packages/desktop-cli/README.md).

## Use stlite on your web page

You can use _stlite_ on your web page loading the script and CSS files via `<script>` and `<link>` tags as below.
Here is a sample HTML file.

```html
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
  <head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8" />
    <meta http-equiv="X-UA-Compatible" content="IE=edge" />
    <meta
      name="viewport"
      content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1, shrink-to-fit=no"
    />
    <title>stlite app</title>
    <link
      rel="stylesheet"
      href="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/@stlite/mountable@0.14.0/build/stlite.css"
    />
  </head>
  <body>
    <div id="root"></div>
    <script src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/@stlite/mountable@0.14.0/build/stlite.js"></script>
    <script>
      stlite.mount(
        `
import streamlit as st

name = st.text_input('Your name')
st.write("Hello,", name or "world")
`,
        document.getElementById("root")
      );
    </script>
  </body>
</html>
```

In this sample,

- stlite library is imported with the first script tag, then the global `stlite` object becomes available.
- `stlite.mount()` mounts the Streamlit app on the `<div id="root" />` element as specified via the second argument. The app script is passed via the first argument.

### More controls

If more controls are needed such as installing dependencies or mounting multiple files, use the following API instead.

```js
stlite.mount(
  {
    requirements: ["matplotlib"], // Packages to install
    entrypoint: "streamlit_app.py", // The target file of the `streamlit run` command
    files: {
      "streamlit_app.py": `
import streamlit as st
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
import numpy as np

size = st.slider("Sample size", 100, 1000)

arr = np.random.normal(1, 1, size=size)
fig, ax = plt.subplots()
ax.hist(arr, bins=20)

st.pyplot(fig)
`,
    },
  },
  document.getElementById("root")
);
```

### Other stlite versions

In the example above, the stlite script is loaded via the `<script>` tag with the versioned URL.
You can use another version by changing the version number in the URL.

The following URLs are also available, while our recommendation is to use the versioned one as above because the API may change without backward compatibility in future releases.

#### The latest release

```html
<script src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/@stlite/mountable/build/stlite.js"></script>
```

You can use the latest version of the published stlite package with this URL.

#### The head of the main branch

```html
<script src="https://whitphx.github.io/stlite/lib/mountable/stlite.js"></script>
```

This URL points to the head of the main branch which is usually ahead of the released packages. However, we strongly recommend NOT to use this URL because this might be broken and there is no guarantee that this resource will be kept available in the future.

### Multipage apps

You can pass the multiple files to the `files` option as below to construct the multipage app structure, the entry point file and `pages/*.py` files.

Read [the Streamlit official document](https://docs.streamlit.io/library/get-started/multipage-apps) about the multipage apps.

```js
stlite.mount(
  {
    entrypoint: "👋_Hello.py",
    files: {
      "👋_Hello.py": `
import streamlit as st

st.set_page_config(page_title="Hello")
st.title("Main page")
`,
      "pages/1_⭐️_Page1.py": `
import streamlit as st

st.set_page_config(page_title="Page1")
st.title("Page 1")
`,
      "pages/2_🎈_Page2.py": `
import streamlit as st

st.set_page_config(page_title="Page2")
st.title("Page 2")
`,
    },
  },
  document.getElementById("root")
);
```

## Limitations

As _stlite_ runs on the web browser environment ([Pyodide](https://pyodide.org/) runtime), there are things not working well. The known issues follow.

- `st.spinner()` is no-op.
- `st.progress()` does not show the progress bar during the script execution, but shows only the last state after the execution finishes.
- `time.sleep()` is no-op. This is a problem at Pyodide runtime. See https://github.com/pyodide/pyodide/issues/2354
- The C extension packages that are not built for Pyodide cannot be installed. See https://pyodide.org/en/stable/usage/faq.html#micropip-can-t-find-a-pure-python-wheel for the details.
- `st.pydeck()` cannot be used because its dependency `pydeck` does not provide a Pyodide-compatible build.

Other problems are tracked at GitHub Issues: https://github.com/whitphx/stlite/issues
If you find a new problem, please report it.

## Resources

- [📺 "Serverless Streamlit + OpenCV Python Web App Tutorial", by 1littlecoder, YouTube](https://youtu.be/7Qja9ZAWcfw): A quick tutorial to develop an OpenCV image processing app with stlite that runs completely on browsers.
- [📖 "New library: stlite, a port of Streamlit to Wasm, powered by Pyodide", Streamlit Community](https://discuss.streamlit.io/t/new-library-stlite-a-port-of-streamlit-to-wasm-powered-by-pyodide/25556):
  The stlite thread at the Streamlit online forum.
- [📺 "Stlite - Streamlit without Server - powered by Pyodide (WebAssembly)", by 1littlecoder, YouTube](https://youtu.be/VQdktxgbmmg):
  A quick tutorial with local app development and GitHub Pages deployment.

## Sponsors

### Databutton

[<img src="https://docs.databutton.com/_media/icon.svg" height="100" >](https://www.databutton.io/)

## Support the project

[![ko-fi](https://ko-fi.com/img/githubbutton_sm.svg)](https://ko-fi.com/D1D2ERWFG)

[<img src="https://cdn.buymeacoffee.com/buttons/v2/default-yellow.png" alt="Buy Me A Coffee" width="180" height="50" >](https://www.buymeacoffee.com/whitphx)

[![GitHub Sponsors](https://img.shields.io/github/sponsors/whitphx?label=Sponsor%20me%20on%20GitHub%20Sponsors&style=social)](https://github.com/sponsors/whitphx)

Contact the author: [Twitter](https://twitter.com/whitphx) / [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/whitphx/).

Commit message:

Update README.md adding a link to the stlite blog post

README.md, after:

# stlite: Serverless Streamlit

[![Test, Build, and Publish](https://github.com/whitphx/stlite/actions/workflows/main.yml/badge.svg?branch=main)](https://github.com/whitphx/stlite/actions/workflows/main.yml)
[![Build and Deploy GitHub Pages](https://github.com/whitphx/stlite/actions/workflows/gh-pages.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/whitphx/stlite/actions/workflows/gh-pages.yml)
[![npm (@stlite/mountable)](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@stlite/mountable?label=npm%20%28%40stlite%2Fmountable%29)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@stlite/mountable)

<img src="./docs/images/logo.svg" style="background: white;" >

A port of [Streamlit](https://streamlit.io/) to WebAssembly, powered by [Pyodide](https://pyodide.org/).

Streamlit is a Python web app framework for the fast development of data apps. This project is to make it run completely on web browsers.

## Try it out

Visit [stlite sharing](https://edit.share.stlite.net/).

[<img src="https://edit.share.stlite.net/ogp.png" height="180" >](https://edit.share.stlite.net/)

## Samples

### ⚡️Serverless Image Processing App

Image processing with OpenCV works on the client-side.

- Repository📌: https://github.com/whitphx/stlite-image-processing-app
- Online demo🎈: https://whitphx.github.io/stlite-image-processing-app/

<details>
  <summary>See the tutorial video</summary>

[Serverless Streamlit + OpenCV Python Web App Tutorial](https://youtu.be/7Qja9ZAWcfw), crafted by [1littlecoder](https://www.youtube.com/c/1littlecoder).

[![Serverless Streamlit + OpenCV Python Web App Tutorial](https://img.youtube.com/vi/7Qja9ZAWcfw/0.jpg)](https://youtu.be/7Qja9ZAWcfw)

</details>

## Create a desktop app

See [`@stlite/desktop-cli`](./packages/desktop-cli/README.md).

## Use stlite on your web page

You can use _stlite_ on your web page loading the script and CSS files via `<script>` and `<link>` tags as below.
Here is a sample HTML file.

```html
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
  <head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8" />
    <meta http-equiv="X-UA-Compatible" content="IE=edge" />
    <meta
      name="viewport"
      content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1, shrink-to-fit=no"
    />
    <title>stlite app</title>
    <link
      rel="stylesheet"
      href="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/@stlite/mountable@0.14.0/build/stlite.css"
    />
  </head>
  <body>
    <div id="root"></div>
    <script src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/@stlite/mountable@0.14.0/build/stlite.js"></script>
    <script>
      stlite.mount(
        `
import streamlit as st

name = st.text_input('Your name')
st.write("Hello,", name or "world")
`,
        document.getElementById("root")
      );
    </script>
  </body>
</html>
```

In this sample,

- stlite library is imported with the first script tag, then the global `stlite` object becomes available.
- `stlite.mount()` mounts the Streamlit app on the `<div id="root" />` element as specified via the second argument. The app script is passed via the first argument.

### More controls

If more controls are needed such as installing dependencies or mounting multiple files, use the following API instead.

```js
stlite.mount(
  {
    requirements: ["matplotlib"], // Packages to install
    entrypoint: "streamlit_app.py", // The target file of the `streamlit run` command
    files: {
      "streamlit_app.py": `
import streamlit as st
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
import numpy as np

size = st.slider("Sample size", 100, 1000)

arr = np.random.normal(1, 1, size=size)
fig, ax = plt.subplots()
ax.hist(arr, bins=20)

st.pyplot(fig)
`,
    },
  },
  document.getElementById("root")
);
```

### Other stlite versions

In the example above, the stlite script is loaded via the `<script>` tag with the versioned URL.
You can use another version by changing the version number in the URL.

The following URLs are also available, while our recommendation is to use the versioned one as above because the API may change without backward compatibility in future releases.

#### The latest release

```html
<script src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/@stlite/mountable/build/stlite.js"></script>
```

You can use the latest version of the published stlite package with this URL.

#### The head of the main branch

```html
<script src="https://whitphx.github.io/stlite/lib/mountable/stlite.js"></script>
```

This URL points to the head of the main branch which is usually ahead of the released packages. However, we strongly recommend NOT to use this URL because this might be broken and there is no guarantee that this resource will be kept available in the future.

### Multipage apps

You can pass the multiple files to the `files` option as below to construct the multipage app structure, the entry point file and `pages/*.py` files.

Read [the Streamlit official document](https://docs.streamlit.io/library/get-started/multipage-apps) about the multipage apps.

```js
stlite.mount(
  {
    entrypoint: "👋_Hello.py",
    files: {
      "👋_Hello.py": `
import streamlit as st

st.set_page_config(page_title="Hello")
st.title("Main page")
`,
      "pages/1_⭐️_Page1.py": `
import streamlit as st

st.set_page_config(page_title="Page1")
st.title("Page 1")
`,
      "pages/2_🎈_Page2.py": `
import streamlit as st

st.set_page_config(page_title="Page2")
st.title("Page 2")
`,
    },
  },
  document.getElementById("root")
);
```

## Limitations

As _stlite_ runs on the web browser environment ([Pyodide](https://pyodide.org/) runtime), there are things not working well. The known issues follow.

- `st.spinner()` is no-op.
- `st.progress()` does not show the progress bar during the script execution, but shows only the last state after the execution finishes.
- `time.sleep()` is no-op. This is a problem at Pyodide runtime. See https://github.com/pyodide/pyodide/issues/2354
- The C extension packages that are not built for Pyodide cannot be installed. See https://pyodide.org/en/stable/usage/faq.html#micropip-can-t-find-a-pure-python-wheel for the details.
- `st.pydeck()` cannot be used because its dependency `pydeck` does not provide a Pyodide-compatible build.

Other problems are tracked at GitHub Issues: https://github.com/whitphx/stlite/issues
If you find a new problem, please report it.

## Resources

- [📖 Streamlit meets WebAssembly - stlite, by whitphx](https://www.whitphx.info/posts/20221104-streamlit-wasm-stlite/): A blog post covering from some technical surveys to the usages of the online editor _stlite sharing_, self-hosting apps, and the desktop app bundler.
- [📺 "Serverless Streamlit + OpenCV Python Web App Tutorial", by 1littlecoder, YouTube](https://youtu.be/7Qja9ZAWcfw): A quick tutorial to develop an OpenCV image processing app with stlite that runs completely on browsers.
- [📖 "New library: stlite, a port of Streamlit to Wasm, powered by Pyodide", Streamlit Community](https://discuss.streamlit.io/t/new-library-stlite-a-port-of-streamlit-to-wasm-powered-by-pyodide/25556):
  The stlite thread at the Streamlit online forum.
- [📺 "Stlite - Streamlit without Server - powered by Pyodide (WebAssembly)", by 1littlecoder, YouTube](https://youtu.be/VQdktxgbmmg):
  A quick tutorial with local app development and GitHub Pages deployment.

## Sponsors

### Databutton

[<img src="https://docs.databutton.com/_media/icon.svg" height="100" >](https://www.databutton.io/)

## Support the project

[![ko-fi](https://ko-fi.com/img/githubbutton_sm.svg)](https://ko-fi.com/D1D2ERWFG)

[<img src="https://cdn.buymeacoffee.com/buttons/v2/default-yellow.png" alt="Buy Me A Coffee" width="180" height="50" >](https://www.buymeacoffee.com/whitphx)

[![GitHub Sponsors](https://img.shields.io/github/sponsors/whitphx?label=Sponsor%20me%20on%20GitHub%20Sponsors&style=social)](https://github.com/sponsors/whitphx)

Contact the author: [Twitter](https://twitter.com/whitphx) / [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/whitphx/).
